slug: extlinux
title: extlinux
categories:
  - Arch
  - Linux
published_date: "2010-07-18 03:59:43 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
data:
  author: admin
  comments: true
  wordpress_id: 333
  layout: post
---
I had been thinking about switching from grub to grub2 on my main workstation for a while now. Grub did everything I required however I felt like trying something new. Recently one of the Arch Linux devs mentioned [extlinux](http://syslinux.zytor.com/wiki/index.php/EXTLINUX) on one of the Arch Linux mailing lists as an alternative to the more well known grub and lilo.

I was vaguely aware of extlinux as it is part of the [syslinux](http://syslinux.zytor.com) bundle developed by [H. Peter Anvin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hans_Peter_Anvin) and I have used [pxelinux](http://syslinux.zytor.com/wiki/index.php/PXELINUX) in the past. After reading up on extlinux I decided to give it a go. Install was a breeze with the syslinux wiki giving instructions that covered my RAID setup that would allow the system to boot regardless of which disks were present in the case of a disk failure. The config file uses a slightly different format to grub. The following is what I am currently using:


    
    [mike@mercury|~] $ cat /boot/extlinux/extlinux.conf 
    ui vesamenu.c32
    timeout 100
    
    menu title Mercury Boot Menu
    
    label 1
        menu label Arch Linux
        kernel /vmlinuz26
        append initrd=/kernel26.img root=/dev/mapper/vg0-root ro vga=0x307
    
    label 2
        menu label Arch Linux Fallback
        kernel /vmlinuz26
        append initrd=/kernel26-fallback.img root=/dev/mapper/vg0-root ro vga=0x307



This gives me a VGA resolution boot menu with support for customizable colors and background images though I have not made use of these features yet.

While looking into extlinux I came across a [Google Tech Talk](http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=1911723796712805715) by Marty Connor, H. Peter Anvin and Michael Brown. It mainly covers networking booting though it is very entertaining being mostly freeform.


